P5-T3 RED EVIDENCE - REMOTION SCENARIO EXPLAINERS
Date: 2026-07-13
Branch: codex/mission/p5-remotion-scenario-explainers

Command:
  npm --prefix apps/media run test:contracts

Initial result: FAIL

The first contract run failed six P5-T3 requirements before implementation:
1. pinned Remotion dependencies and standing scripts were absent;
2. versioned scenario JSON generated from the shared financial engine was absent;
3. the Remotion root and nine aspect-ratio story registrations were absent;
4. frame-driven, local, truth-first composition source was absent;
5. Remotion output and browser-bundle ignore rules were absent; and
6. the existing HyperFrames animation-map digest drifted on Windows because
   committed LF bytes were compared with a CRLF checkout.

The behavior contract was kept red while the renderer workspace, engine-backed
scenario generator, compositions, output protections, and portable digest
normalization were implemented.

Visual red discovered after the source contracts first passed:
  The frame-150 square Money Loop render showed result cards overlapping the
  scenario visual and footer. Remotion Sequence layout="none" had removed the
  result grid from normal flex flow. The composition was corrected by keeping
  phase content in stable layout zones and using frame-driven opacity.

Independent review red discovered after the first green claim:
1. scenario validation used an unrestricted z.custom() cast instead of a strict
   runtime schema;
2. the baseline and Money Loop visuals did not tell the complete contracted
   stories;
3. aggregated Money Loop events were presented as ledger-continuous even though
   they did not preserve the dated transaction order;
4. visible financial values were hardcoded in React rather than sourced from
   generated engine data;
5. safe areas and type sizes were below the visual-identity minimums;
6. motion started at frame zero and used durations outside the shared contract;
7. the standing gate did not prove browser overflow, safe-area bounds, or zone
   collisions; and
8. the renderer could auto-download a browser executable into an unignored
   cache. The review also found inconsistent precision and an overloaded engine
   contract-version label.

Runtime red discovered while closing those findings:
- The first full 240-frame video failed at frame 2 because entrance translation
  moved the intro layout zone outside its safe area.
- The stable zone now remains fixed while only an inner marked content wrapper
  moves. Runtime probes cover both layout zones and marked moving content.

Second independent review red:
1. the representative reduced-motion still preserved order labels and final
   balances but omitted the six intermediate values and explanations; and
2. the system-browser wrapper prevented automatic downloads but accepted any
   installed Chrome patch, so local and CI rasterization could drift.

The reduced-motion still is now a complete ordered six-step fact sheet, and an
exact Chrome for Testing version is committed, validated by the wrapper, and
installed in CI through a commit-pinned setup action. The explicit local browser
preparation command is separate from the offline render gate.

These failures remain recorded because the final green gate is meaningful only
after the strict schema, complete stories, exact dated events, data-bound copy,
identity geometry, contractual motion, browser assertions, system-Chrome
wrapper, exact browser pin, complete reduced-motion substitute, cache ignores,
and version/precision policies were implemented.
